README.md, before:

# data-structures-and-algorithms

# Reverse an Array
Reverse the contents of an array.

## Challenge
Write a function called reverseArray which takes an array as an argument. Without utilizing any of the built-in methods available to your language, return an array with elements in reversed order.

## Approach & Efficiency
Wrote a function that would take in an array, find the length of the array, then starting with the last item, pushes each item into a new array and returns the new array.

# Shift an Array
Add a value to the middle of an array.

## Challenge
Write a function called insertShiftArray which takes in an array and the value to be added. Without utilizing any of the built-in methods available to your language, return an array with the new value added at the middle index.

## Approach & Efficiency
Wrote a function that takes in an array and a value, creates a new array with the array values, finds the middle of the new array, then puts the value into the middle of the new array and returns the new array.

![whiteboard](/challenges/arrayShift/array-shift.jpg)


# Array Binary Search
Search for a value in an array, return index of element if there, return -1 if not there.

## Challenge
Write a function called BinarySearch which takes in 2 parameters: a sorted array and the search key. Without utilizing any of the built-in methods available to your language, return the index of the array’s element that is equal to the search key, or -1 if the element does not exist.

## Approach & Efficiency
Wrote a function that takes in an array and a value, searches for the value in the array. If the value is there, returns the index of the element. If the value isn't there, returns -1.

![whiteboard](/challenges/arrayBinarySearch/array-binary-search.jpg
)

Commit message:

completed challenge 5 - linked list implementation

README.md, after:

# data-structures-and-algorithms


# Reverse an Array 
Reverse the contents of an array.

## Challenge
Write a function called reverseArray which takes an array as an argument. Without utilizing any of the built-in methods available to your language, return an array with elements in reversed order.

## Approach & Efficiency
Wrote a function that would take in an array, find the length of the array, then starting with the last item, pushes each item into a new array and returns the new array.

# Shift an Array 
Add a value to the middle of an array.

## Challenge
Write a function called insertShiftArray which takes in an array and the value to be added. Without utilizing any of the built-in methods available to your language, return an array with the new value added at the middle index.

## Approach & Efficiency
Wrote a function that takes in an array and a value, creates a new array with the array values, finds the middle of the new array, then puts the value into the middle of the new array and returns the new array.

![whiteboard](/challenges/arrayShift/array-shift.jpg)


# Array Binary Search 
Search for a value in an array, return index of element if there, return -1 if not there.

## Challenge
Write a function called BinarySearch which takes in 2 parameters: a sorted array and the search key. Without utilizing any of the built-in methods available to your language, return the index of the array’s element that is equal to the search key, or -1 if the element does not exist.

## Approach & Efficiency
Wrote a function that takes in an array and a value, searches for the value in the array. If the value is there, returns the index of the element. If the value isn't there, returns -1.

![whiteboard](/challenges/arrayBinarySearch/array-binary-search.jpg)

# Singly Linked List 
Create a Node class that has properties for the value stored in the Node, and a pointer to the next Node.

## Challenge
- Within your LinkedList class, include a head property. Upon instantiation, an empty Linked List should be created.

  - Define a method called insert which takes any value as an argument and adds a new node with that value to the head of the list with an O(1) Time performance.

  - Define a method called includes which takes any value as an argument and returns a boolean result depending on whether that value exists as a Node’s value somewhere within the list.

  - Define a method called toString (or __str__ in Python) which takes in no arguments and returns a string representing all the values in the Linked List, formatted as: "{ a } -> { b } -> { c } -> NULL"

- Any exceptions or errors that come from your code should be semantic, capturable errors. For example, rather than a default error thrown by your language, your code should raise/throw a custom, semantic error that describes what went wrong in calling the methods you wrote for this lab.

- Be sure to follow your language/frameworks standard naming conventions (e.g. C# uses PascalCasing for all method and class names).

## Approach & Efficiency
Created a Node class. Created a LinkedList class. The LinkedList class has three methods: includes(), insert(), and toString(). Created tests to verify the functionality. 

## API
`insert()` takes in a value and adds a new node with that value to the head of the list. `includes()` takes in a value and returns true if that value is in the list and false if it's not in the list. `toString()` returns a string that represents all of the values in the list.
